------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 7, 2018 edition
IEEE Std 1003.1-2017 (Revision of IEEE Std 1003.1-2008)
Copyright © 2001-2018 IEEE and The Open Group

------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

  pax - portable archive interchange

SYNOPSIS

  pax [-dv] [-c|-n] [-H|-L] [-o options] [-f archive] [-s replstr]...
         [pattern...]
  pax -r[-c|-n] [-dikuv] [-H|-L] [-f archive] [-o options]... [-p string]...
         [-s replstr]... [pattern...]
  pax -w [-dituvX] [-H|-L] [-b blocksize] [[-a] [-f archive]] [-o options]...
         [-s replstr]... [-x format] [file...]
  pax -r -w [-diklntuvX] [-H|-L] [-o options]... [-p string]...
         [-s replstr]... [file...] directory

DESCRIPTION

  The pax utility shall read, write, and write lists of the members of
  archive files and copy directory hierarchies. A variety of archive
  formats shall be supported; see the -x format option.

  The action to be taken depends on the presence of the -r and -w
  options. The four combinations of -r and -w are referred to as the
  four modes of operation: list, read, write, and copy modes,
  corresponding respectively to the four forms shown in the SYNOPSIS
  section.

  list
      In list mode (when neither -r nor -w are specified), pax shall
      write the names of the members of the archive file read from the
      standard input, with pathnames matching the specified patterns, to
      standard output. If a named file is of type directory, the file
      hierarchy rooted at that file shall be listed as well.

  read

      In read mode (when -r is specified, but -w is not), pax shall
      extract the members of the archive file read from the standard
      input, with pathnames matching the specified patterns. If an
      extracted file is of type directory, the file hierarchy rooted at
      that file shall be extracted as well. The extracted files shall be
      created performing pathname resolution with the directory in which
      pax was invoked as the current working directory.

      If an attempt is made to extract a directory when the directory
      already exists, this shall not be considered an error. If an
      attempt is made to extract a FIFO when the FIFO already exists,
      this shall not be considered an error.

      The ownership, access, and modification times, and file mode of
      the restored files are discussed under the -p option.

  write
      In write mode (when -w is specified, but -r is not), pax shall
      write the contents of the file operands to the standard output in
      an archive format. If no file operands are specified, a list of
      files to copy, one per line, shall be read from the standard input
      and each entry in this list shall be processed as if it had been a
      file operand on the command line. A file of type directory shall
      include all of the files in the file hierarchy rooted at the file.

  copy

      In copy mode (when both -r and -w are specified), pax shall copy
      the file operands to the destination directory.

      If no file operands are specified, a list of files to copy, one
      per line, shall be read from the standard input. A file of type
      directory shall include all of the files in the file hierarchy
      rooted at the file.

      The effect of the copy shall be as if the copied files were
      written to a pax format archive file and then subsequently
      extracted, except that copying of sockets may be supported even if
      archiving them in write mode is not supported, and that there may
      be hard links between the original and the copied files. If the
      destination directory is a subdirectory of one of the files to be
      copied, the results are unspecified. If the destination directory
      is a file of a type not defined by the System Interfaces volume of
      POSIX.1-2017, the results are implementation-defined; otherwise,
      it shall be an error for the file named by the directory operand
      not to exist, not be writable by the user, or not be a file of
      type directory.

  In read or copy modes, if intermediate directories are necessary to
  extract an archive member, pax shall perform actions equivalent to the
  mkdir() function defined in the System Interfaces volume of
  POSIX.1-2017, called with the following arguments:

  -   The intermediate directory used as the path argument

  -   The value of the bitwise-inclusive OR of S_IRWXU, S_IRWXG, and
      S_IRWXO as the mode argument

  If any specified pattern or file operands are not matched by at least
  one file or archive member, pax shall write a diagnostic message to
  standard error for each one that did not match and exit with a
  non-zero exit status.

  The archive formats described in the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION section
  shall be automatically detected on input. The default output archive
  format shall be implementation-defined.

  A single archive can span multiple files. The pax utility shall
  determine, in an implementation-defined manner, what file to read or
  write as the next file.

  If the selected archive format supports the specification of linked
  files, it shall be an error if these files cannot be linked when the
  archive is extracted. For archive formats that do not store file
  contents with each name that causes a hard link, if the file that
  contains the data is not extracted during this pax session, either the
  data shall be restored from the original file, or a diagnostic message
  shall be displayed with the name of a file that can be used to extract
  the data. In traversing directories, pax shall detect infinite loops;
  that is, entering a previously visited directory that is an ancestor
  of the last file visited. When it detects an infinite loop, pax shall
  write a diagnostic message to standard error and shall terminate.

OPTIONS

  The pax utility shall conform to XBD Utility Syntax Guidelines ,
  except that the order of presentation of the -o, -p, and -s options is
  significant.

  The following options shall be supported:

  -r
      Read an archive file from standard input.

  -w
      Write files to the standard output in the specified archive
      format.

  -a
      Append files to the end of the archive. It is
      implementation-defined which devices on the system support
      appending. Additional file formats unspecified by this volume of
      POSIX.1-2017 may impose restrictions on appending.

  -b  blocksize
      Block the output at a positive decimal integer number of bytes per
      write to the archive file. Devices and archive formats may impose
      restrictions on blocking. Blocking shall be automatically
      determined on input. Conforming applications shall not specify a
      blocksize value larger than 32256. Default blocking when creating
      archives depends on the archive format. (See the -x option below.)

  -c
      Match all file or archive members except those specified by the
      pattern or file operands.

  -d
      Cause files of type directory being copied or archived or archive
      members of type directory being extracted or listed to match only
      the file or archive member itself and not the file hierarchy
      rooted at the file.

  -f  archive
      Specify the pathname of the input or output archive, overriding
      the default standard input (in list or read modes) or standard
      output (write mode).

  -H
      If a symbolic link referencing a file of type directory is
      specified on the command line, pax shall archive the file
      hierarchy rooted in the file referenced by the link, using the
      name of the link as the root of the file hierarchy. Otherwise, if
      a symbolic link referencing a file of any other file type which
      pax can normally archive is specified on the command line, then
      pax shall archive the file referenced by the link, using the name
      of the link. The default behavior, when neither -H or -L are
      specified, shall be to archive the symbolic link itself.

  -i

      Interactively rename files or archive members. For each archive
      member matching a pattern operand or file matching a file operand,
      a prompt shall be written to the file /dev/tty. The prompt shall
      contain the name of the file or archive member, but the format is
      otherwise unspecified. A line shall then be read from /dev/tty. If
      this line is blank, the file or archive member shall be skipped.
      If this line consists of a single period, the file or archive
      member shall be processed with no modification to its name.
      Otherwise, its name shall be replaced with the contents of the
      line. The pax utility shall immediately exit with a non-zero exit
      status if end-of-file is encountered when reading a response or if
      /dev/tty cannot be opened for reading and writing.

      The results of extracting a hard link to a file that has been
      renamed during extraction are unspecified.

  -k
      Prevent the overwriting of existing files.

  -l
      (The letter ell.) In copy mode, hard links shall be made between
      the source and destination file hierarchies whenever possible. If
      specified in conjunction with -H or -L, when a symbolic link is
      encountered, the hard link created in the destination file
      hierarchy shall be to the file referenced by the symbolic link. If
      specified when neither -H nor -L is specified, when a symbolic
      link is encountered, the implementation shall create a hard link
      to the symbolic link in the source file hierarchy or copy the
      symbolic link to the destination.

  -L
      If a symbolic link referencing a file of type directory is
      specified on the command line or encountered during the traversal
      of a file hierarchy, pax shall archive the file hierarchy rooted
      in the file referenced by the link, using the name of the link as
      the root of the file hierarchy. Otherwise, if a symbolic link
      referencing a file of any other file type which pax can normally
      archive is specified on the command line or encountered during the
      traversal of a file hierarchy, pax shall archive the file
      referenced by the link, using the name of the link. The default
      behavior, when neither -H or -L are specified, shall be to archive
      the symbolic link itself.

  -n
      Select the first archive member that matches each pattern operand.
      No more than one archive member shall be matched for each pattern
      (although members of type directory shall still match the file
      hierarchy rooted at that file).

  -o  options

      Provide information to the implementation to modify the algorithm
      for extracting or writing files. The value of options shall
      consist of one or more <comma>-separated keywords of the form:

          keyword[[:]=value][,keyword[[:]=value], ...]

      Some keywords apply only to certain file formats, as indicated
      with each description. Use of keywords that are inapplicable to
      the file format being processed produces undefined results.

      Keywords in the options argument shall be a string that would be a
      valid portable filename as described in XBD Portable Filename
      Character Set.

      Note:
          Keywords are not expected to be filenames, merely to follow
          the same character composition rules as portable filenames.

      Keywords can be preceded with white space. The value field shall
      consist of zero or more characters; within value, the application
      shall precede any literal <comma> with a <backslash>, which shall
      be ignored, but preserves the <comma> as part of value. A <comma>
      as the final character, or a <comma> followed solely by white
      space as the final characters, in options shall be ignored.
      Multiple -o options can be specified; if keywords given to these
      multiple -o options conflict, the keywords and values appearing
      later in command line sequence shall take precedence and the
      earlier shall be silently ignored. The following keyword values of
      options shall be supported for the file formats as indicated:

      delete=pattern

          (Applicable only to the -x pax format.) When used in write or
          copy mode, pax shall omit from extended header records that it
          produces any keywords matching the string pattern. When used
          in read or list mode, pax shall ignore any keywords matching
          the string pattern in the extended header records. In both
          cases, matching shall be performed using the pattern matching
          notation described in Patterns Matching a Single Character and
          Patterns Matching Multiple Characters . For example:

              -o delete=security.*

          would suppress security-related information. See pax Extended
          Header for extended header record keyword usage.

          When multiple -o delete=pattern options are specified, the
          patterns shall be additive; all keywords matching the
          specified string patterns shall be omitted from extended
          header records that pax produces.

      exthdr.name=string

          (Applicable only to the -x pax format.) This keyword allows
          user control over the name that is written into the ustar
          header blocks for the extended header produced under the
          circumstances described in pax Header Block. The name shall be
          the contents of string, after the following character
          substitutions have been made:

              string                                                           
            ----------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Includes:                                                  Replaced by:
                %d       The directory name of the file, equivalent to the result of the dirname utility on the translated pathname.
                %f         The filename of the file, equivalent to the result of the basename utility on the translated pathname.
                %p                                           The process ID of the pax process.
                %%                                                    A '%' character.

          Any other '%' characters in string produce undefined results.

          If no -o exthdr.name=string is specified, pax shall use the
          following default value:

              %d/PaxHeaders.%p/%f

      globexthdr.name=string

          (Applicable only to the -x pax format.) When used in write or
          copy mode with the appropriate options, pax shall create
          global extended header records with ustar header blocks that
          will be treated as regular files by previous versions of pax.
          This keyword allows user control over the name that is written
          into the ustar header blocks for global extended header
          records. The name shall be the contents of string, after the
          following character substitutions have been made:

              string                                                              
            ----------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Includes:                                                      Replaced by:
                %n       An integer that represents the sequence number of the global extended header record in the archive, starting at 1.
                %p                                               The process ID of the pax process.
                %%                                                        A '%' character.

          Any other '%' characters in string produce undefined results.

          If no -o globexthdr.name=string is specified, pax shall use
          the following default value:

              $TMPDIR/GlobalHead.%p.%n

          where $ TMPDIR represents the value of the TMPDIR environment
          variable. If TMPDIR is not set, pax shall use /tmp.

      invalid=action

          (Applicable only to the -x pax format.) This keyword allows
          user control over the action pax takes upon encountering
          values in an extended header record that, in read or copy
          mode, are invalid in the destination hierarchy or, in list
          mode, cannot be written in the codeset and current locale of
          the implementation. The following are invalid values that
          shall be recognized by pax:

          -   In read or copy mode, a filename or link name that
              contains character encodings invalid in the destination
              hierarchy. (For example, the name may contain embedded
              NULs.)

          -   In read or copy mode, a filename or link name that is
              longer than the maximum allowed in the destination
              hierarchy (for either a pathname component or the entire
              pathname).

          -   In list mode, any character string value (filename, link
              name, user name, and so on) that cannot be written in the
              codeset and current locale of the implementation.

          The following mutually-exclusive values of the action argument
          are supported:

          binary
              In write mode, pax shall generate a hdrcharset=BINARY
              extended header record for each file with a filename, link
              name, group name, owner name, or any other field in an
              extended header record that cannot be translated to the
              UTF-8 codeset, allowing the archive to contain the files
              with unencoded extended header record values. In read or
              copy mode, pax shall use the values specified in the
              header without translation, regardless of whether this may
              overwrite an existing file with a valid name. In list
              mode, pax shall behave identically to the bypass action.

          bypass
              In read or copy mode, pax shall bypass the file, causing
              no change to the destination hierarchy. In list mode, pax
              shall write all requested valid values for the file, but
              its method for writing invalid values is unspecified.

          rename
              In read or copy mode, pax shall act as if the -i option
              were in effect for each file with invalid filename or link
              name values, allowing the user to provide a replacement
              name interactively. In list mode, pax shall behave
              identically to the bypass action.

          UTF-8
              When used in read, copy, or list mode and a filename, link
              name, owner name, or any other field in an extended header
              record cannot be translated from the pax UTF-8 codeset
              format to the codeset and current locale of the
              implementation, pax shall use the actual UTF-8 encoding
              for the name. If a hdrcharset extended header record is in
              effect for this file, the character set specified by that
              record shall be used instead of UTF-8. If a
              hdrcharset=BINARY extended header record is in effect for
              this file, no translation shall be performed.

          write
              In read or copy mode, pax shall write the file,
              translating the name, regardless of whether this may
              overwrite an existing file with a valid name. In list
              mode, pax shall behave identically to the bypass action.

          If no -o invalid=option is specified, pax shall act as if -o
          invalid=bypass were specified. Any overwriting of existing
          files that may be allowed by the -o invalid= actions shall be
          subject to permission ( -p) and modification time (-u)
          restrictions, and shall be suppressed if the -k option is also
          specified.

      linkdata
          (Applicable only to the -x pax format.) In write mode, pax
          shall write the contents of a file to the archive even when
          that file is merely a hard link to a file whose contents have
          already been written to the archive.

      listopt=format
          This keyword specifies the output format of the table of
          contents produced when the -v option is specified in list
          mode. See List Mode Format Specifications. To avoid ambiguity,
          the listopt=format shall be the only or final keyword=value
          pair in a -o option-argument; all characters in the remainder
          of the option-argument shall be considered part of the format
          string. When multiple -o listopt=format options are specified,
          the format strings shall be considered a single, concatenated
          string, evaluated in command line order.

      times
          (Applicable only to the -x pax format.) When used in write or
          copy mode, pax shall include atime and mtime extended header
          records for each file. See pax Extended Header File Times.

      In addition to these keywords, if the -x pax format is specified,
      any of the keywords and values defined in pax Extended Header,
      including implementation extensions, can be used in -o
      option-arguments, in either of two modes:

      keyword=value
          When used in write or copy mode, these keyword/value pairs
          shall be included at the beginning of the archive as typeflag
          g global extended header records. When used in read or list
          mode, these keyword/value pairs shall act as if they had been
          at the beginning of the archive as typeflag g global extended
          header records.

      keyword:=value

          When used in write or copy mode, these keyword/value pairs
          shall be included as records at the beginning of a typeflag x
          extended header for each file. (This shall be equivalent to
          the <equals-sign> form except that it creates no typeflag g
          global extended header records.) When used in read or list
          mode, these keyword/value pairs shall act as if they were
          included as records at the end of each extended header; thus,
          they shall override any global or file-specific extended
          header record keywords of the same names. For example, in the
          command:

              pax -r -o "
              gname:=mygroup,
              " <archive

          the group name will be forced to a new value for all files
          read from the archive.

      The precedence of -o keywords over various fields in the archive
      is described in pax Extended Header Keyword Precedence. If the -o
      delete= pattern, -o keyword= value, or -o keyword:= value options
      are used to override or remove any extended header data needed to
      find files in an archive (e.g., -o delete=size for a file whose
      size cannot be represented in a ustar header or -o size=100 for a
      file whose size is not 100 bytes), the behavior is undefined.

  -p  string

      Specify one or more file characteristic options (privileges). The
      string option-argument shall be a string specifying file
      characteristics to be retained or discarded on extraction. The
      string shall consist of the specification characters a , e, m, o,
      and p. Other implementation-defined characters can be included.
      Multiple characteristics can be concatenated within the same
      string and multiple -p options can be specified. The meaning of
      the specification characters are as follows:

      a
          Do not preserve file access times.

      e
          Preserve the user ID, group ID, file mode bits (see XBD File
          Mode Bits), access time, modification time, and any other
          implementation-defined file characteristics.

      m
          Do not preserve file modification times.

      o
          Preserve the user ID and group ID.

      p
          Preserve the file mode bits. Other implementation-defined file
          mode attributes may be preserved.

      In the preceding list, "preserve" indicates that an attribute
      stored in the archive shall be given to the extracted file,
      subject to the permissions of the invoking process. The access and
      modification times of the file shall be preserved unless otherwise
      specified with the -p option or not stored in the archive. All
      attributes that are not preserved shall be determined as part of
      the normal file creation action (see File Read, Write, and
      Creation).

      If neither the e nor the o specification character is specified,
      or the user ID and group ID are not preserved for any reason, pax
      shall not set the S_ISUID and S_ISGID bits of the file mode.

      If the preservation of any of these items fails for any reason,
      pax shall write a diagnostic message to standard error. Failure to
      preserve these items shall affect the final exit status, but shall
      not cause the extracted file to be deleted.

      If file characteristic letters in any of the string
      option-arguments are duplicated or conflict with each other, the
      ones given last shall take precedence. For example, if -p eme is
      specified, file modification times are preserved.

  -s  replstr

      Modify file or archive member names named by pattern or file
      operands according to the substitution expression replstr, using
      the syntax of the ed utility. The concepts of "address" and "line"
      are meaningless in the context of the pax utility, and shall not
      be supplied. The format shall be:

          -s /old/new/[gp]

      where as in ed, old is a basic regular expression and new can
      contain an <ampersand>, '\n' (where n is a digit) back-references,
      or subexpression matching. The old string shall also be permitted
      to contain <newline> characters.

      Any non-null character can be used as a delimiter ( '/' shown
      here). Multiple -s expressions can be specified; the expressions
      shall be applied in the order specified, terminating with the
      first successful substitution. The optional trailing 'g' is as
      defined in the ed utility. The optional trailing 'p' shall cause
      successful substitutions to be written to standard error. File or
      archive member names that substitute to the empty string shall be
      ignored when reading and writing archives.

  -t
      When reading files from the file system, and if the user has the
      permissions required by utime() to do so, set the access time of
      each file read to the access time that it had before being read by
      pax.

  -u
      Ignore files that are older (having a less recent file
      modification time) than a pre-existing file or archive member with
      the same name. In read mode, an archive member with the same name
      as a file in the file system shall be extracted if the archive
      member is newer than the file. In write mode, an archive file
      member with the same name as a file in the file system shall be
      superseded if the file is newer than the archive member. If -a is
      also specified, this is accomplished by appending to the archive;
      otherwise, it is unspecified whether this is accomplished by
      actual replacement in the archive or by appending to the archive.
      In copy mode, the file in the destination hierarchy shall be
      replaced by the file in the source hierarchy or by a link to the
      file in the source hierarchy if the file in the source hierarchy
      is newer.

  -v
      In list mode, produce a verbose table of contents (see the STDOUT
      section). Otherwise, write archive member pathnames to standard
      error (see the STDERR section).

  -x  format

      Specify the output archive format. The pax utility shall support
      the following formats:

      cpio
          The cpio interchange format; see the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
          section. The default blocksize for this format for character
          special archive files shall be 5120. Implementations shall
          support all blocksize values less than or equal to 32256 that
          are multiples of 512.

      pax
          The pax interchange format; see the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
          section. The default blocksize for this format for character
          special archive files shall be 5120. Implementations shall
          support all blocksize values less than or equal to 32256 that
          are multiples of 512.

      ustar
          The tar interchange format; see the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
          section. The default blocksize for this format for character
          special archive files shall be 10240. Implementations shall
          support all blocksize values less than or equal to 32256 that
          are multiples of 512.

      Implementation-defined formats shall specify a default block size
      as well as any other block sizes supported for character special
      archive files.

      Any attempt to append to an archive file in a format different
      from the existing archive format shall cause pax to exit
      immediately with a non-zero exit status.

  -X
      When traversing the file hierarchy specified by a pathname, pax
      shall not descend into directories that have a different device ID
      (st_dev; see the System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1-2017,
      stat()).

  Specifying more than one of the mutually-exclusive options -H and -L
  shall not be considered an error and the last option specified shall
  determine the behavior of the utility.

  The options that operate on the names of files or archive members (-c,
  -i, -n, -s, -u, and -v) shall interact as follows. In read mode, the
  archive members shall be selected based on the user-specified pattern
  operands as modified by the -c, -n, and -u options. Then, any -s and
  -i options shall modify, in that order, the names of the selected
  files. The -v option shall write names resulting from these
  modifications.

  In write mode, the files shall be selected based on the user-specified
  pathnames as modified by the -n and -u options. Then, any -s and -i
  options shall modify, in that order, the names of these selected
  files. The -v option shall write names resulting from these
  modifications.

  If both the -u and -n options are specified, pax shall not consider a
  file selected unless it is newer than the file to which it is
  compared.

  List Mode Format Specifications

  In list mode with the -o listopt=format option, the format argument
  shall be applied for each selected file. The pax utility shall append
  a <newline> to the listopt output for each selected file. The format
  argument shall be used as the format string described in XBD File
  Format Notation, with the exceptions 1. through 6. defined in the
  EXTENDED DESCRIPTION section of printf, plus the following exceptions:

  7.

      The sequence (keyword) can occur before a format conversion
      specifier. The conversion argument is defined by the value of
      keyword. The implementation shall support the following keywords:

      -   Any of the Field Name entries in ustar Header Block and
          Octet-Oriented cpio Archive Entry. The implementation may
          support the cpio keywords without the leading c_ in addition
          to the form required by Octet-Oriented cpio Archive Entry.

      -   Any keyword defined for the extended header in pax Extended
          Header.

      -   Any keyword provided as an implementation-defined extension
          within the extended header defined in pax Extended Header.

      For example, the sequence "%(charset)s" is the string value of the
      name of the character set in the extended header.

      The result of the keyword conversion argument shall be the value
      from the applicable header field or extended header, without any
      trailing NULs.

      All keyword values used as conversion arguments shall be
      translated from the UTF-8 encoding (or alternative encoding
      specified by any hdrcharset extended header record) to the
      character set appropriate for the local file system, user
      database, and so on, as applicable.

  8.

      An additional conversion specifier character, T, shall be used to
      specify time formats. The T conversion specifier character can be
      preceded by the sequence (keyword= subformat), where subformat is
      a date format as defined by date operands. The default keyword
      shall be mtime and the default subformat shall be:

          %b %e %H:%M %Y

  9.
      An additional conversion specifier character, M, shall be used to
      specify the file mode string as defined in ls Standard Output. If
      (keyword) is omitted, the mode keyword shall be used. For example,
      %.1M writes the single character corresponding to the <entry type>
      field of the ls -l command.

  10.
      An additional conversion specifier character, D, shall be used to
      specify the device for block or special files, if applicable, in
      an implementation-defined format. If not applicable, and (keyword)
      is specified, then this conversion shall be equivalent to
      %(keyword)u. If not applicable, and (keyword) is omitted, then
      this conversion shall be equivalent to <space>.

  11.

      An additional conversion specifier character, F, shall be used to
      specify a pathname. The F conversion character can be preceded by
      a sequence of <comma>-separated keywords:

          (keyword[,keyword] ... )

      The values for all the keywords that are non-null shall be
      concatenated together, each separated by a '/'. The default shall
      be (path) if the keyword path is defined; otherwise, the default
      shall be (prefix, name).

  12.

      An additional conversion specifier character, L, shall be used to
      specify a symbolic link expansion. If the current file is a
      symbolic link, then %L shall expand to:

          "%s -> %s", <value of keyword>, <contents of link>

      Otherwise, the %L conversion specification shall be the equivalent
      of %F.

OPERANDS

  The following operands shall be supported:

  directory
      The destination directory pathname for copy mode.

  file
      A pathname of a file to be copied or archived.

  pattern
      A pattern matching one or more pathnames of archive members. A
      pattern must be given in the name-generating notation of the
      pattern matching notation in Pattern Matching Notation, including
      the filename expansion rules in Patterns Used for Filename
      Expansion. The default, if no pattern is specified, is to select
      all members in the archive.

STDIN

  In write mode, the standard input shall be used only if no file
  operands are specified. It shall be a file containing a list of
  pathnames, each terminated by a <newline> character.

  In list and read modes, if -f is not specified, the standard input
  shall be an archive file.

  Otherwise, the standard input shall not be used.

INPUT FILES

  The input file named by the archive option-argument, or standard input
  when the archive is read from there, shall be a file formatted
  according to one of the specifications in the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
  section or some other implementation-defined format.

  The file /dev/tty shall be used to write prompts and read responses.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

  The following environment variables shall affect the execution of pax:

  LANG
      Provide a default value for the internationalization variables
      that are unset or null. (See XBD Internationalization Variables
      the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
      the values of locale categories.)

  LC_ALL
      If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
      other internationalization variables.

  LC_COLLATE
      Determine the locale for the behavior of ranges, equivalence
      classes, and multi-character collating elements used in the
      pattern matching expressions for the pattern operand, the basic
      regular expression for the -s option, and the extended regular
      expression defined for the yesexpr locale keyword in the
      LC_MESSAGES category.

  LC_CTYPE
      Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes
      of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
      multi-byte characters in arguments and input files), the behavior
      of character classes used in the extended regular expression
      defined for the yesexpr locale keyword in the LC_MESSAGES
      category, and pattern matching.

  LC_MESSAGES
      Determine the locale used to process affirmative responses, and
      the locale used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic
      messages and prompts written to standard error.

  LC_TIME
      Determine the format and contents of date and time strings when
      the -v option is specified.

  NLSPATH
      ^([XSI]) [[Option Start]] Determine the location of message
      catalogs for the processing of LC_MESSAGES. [[Option End]]

  TMPDIR
      Determine the pathname that provides part of the default global
      extended header record file, as described for the -o globexthdr=
      keyword in the OPTIONS section.

  TZ
      Determine the timezone used to calculate date and time strings
      when the -v option is specified. If TZ is unset or null, an
      unspecified default timezone shall be used.

ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS

  Default.

STDOUT

  In write mode, if -f is not specified, the standard output shall be
  the archive formatted according to one of the specifications in the
  EXTENDED DESCRIPTION section, or some other implementation-defined
  format (see -x format).

  In list mode, when the -o listopt= format has been specified, the
  selected archive members shall be written to standard output using the
  format described under List Mode Format Specifications. In list mode
  without the -o listopt= format option, the table of contents of the
  selected archive members shall be written to standard output using the
  following format:

      "%s\n", <pathname>

  If the -v option is specified in list mode, the table of contents of
  the selected archive members shall be written to standard output using
  the following formats.

  For pathnames representing hard links to previous members of the
  archive:

      "%s==%s\n", <ls -l listing>, <linkname>

  For all other pathnames:

      "%s\n", <ls -l listing>

  where <ls  -l listing> shall be the format specified by the ls utility
  with the -l option. When writing pathnames in this format, it is
  unspecified what is written for fields for which the underlying
  archive format does not have the correct information, although the
  correct number of <blank>-separated fields shall be written.

  In list mode, standard output shall not be buffered more than a
  pathname (plus any associated information and a <newline> terminator)
  at a time.

STDERR

  If -v is specified in read, write, or copy modes, pax shall write the
  pathnames it processes to the standard error output using the
  following format:

      "%s\n", <pathname>

  These pathnames shall be written as soon as processing is begun on the
  file or archive member, and shall be flushed to standard error. The
  trailing <newline>, which shall not be buffered, is written when the
  file has been read or written.

  If the -s option is specified, and the replacement string has a
  trailing 'p', substitutions shall be written to standard error in the
  following format:

      "%s>>%s\n", <original pathname>, <new pathname>

  In all operating modes of pax, optional messages of unspecified format
  concerning the input archive format and volume number, the number of
  files, blocks, volumes, and media parts as well as other diagnostic
  messages may be written to standard error.

  In all formats, for both standard output and standard error, it is
  unspecified how non-printable characters in pathnames or link names
  are written.

  When using the -x pax archive format, if a filename, link name, group
  name, owner name, or any other field in an extended header record
  cannot be translated between the codeset in use for that extended
  header record and the character set of the current locale, pax shall
  write a diagnostic message to standard error, shall process the file
  as described for the -o invalid= option, and then shall continue
  processing with the next file.

OUTPUT FILES

  In read mode, the extracted output files shall be of the archived file
  type. In copy mode, the copied output files shall be the type of the
  file being copied. In either mode, existing files in the destination
  hierarchy shall be overwritten only when all permission (-p),
  modification time (-u), and invalid-value (-o invalid=) tests allow
  it.

  In write mode, the output file named by the -f option-argument shall
  be a file formatted according to one of the specifications in the
  EXTENDED DESCRIPTION section, or some other implementation-defined
  format.

EXTENDED DESCRIPTION

  pax Interchange Format

  A pax archive tape or file produced in the -x pax format shall contain
  a series of blocks. The physical layout of the archive shall be
  identical to the ustar format described in ustar Interchange Format.
  Each file archived shall be represented by the following sequence:

  -   An optional header block with extended header records. This header
      block is of the form described in pax Header Block, with a
      typeflag value of x or g. The extended header records, described
      in pax Extended Header, shall be included as the data for this
      header block.

  -   A header block that describes the file. Any fields in the
      preceding optional extended header shall override the associated
      fields in this header block for this file.

  -   Zero or more blocks that contain the contents of the file.

  At the end of the archive file there shall be two 512-byte blocks
  filled with binary zeros, interpreted as an end-of-archive indicator.

  A schematic of an example archive with global extended header records
  and two actual files is shown in pax Format Archive Example. In the
  example, the second file in the archive has no extended header
  preceding it, presumably because it has no need for extended
  attributes.

      []

  Figure: pax Format Archive Example

  pax Header Block

  The pax header block shall be identical to the ustar header block
  described in ustar Interchange Format, except that two additional
  typeflag values are defined:

  x
      Represents extended header records for the following file in the
      archive (which shall have its own ustar header block). The format
      of these extended header records shall be as described in pax
      Extended Header.

  g
      Represents global extended header records for the following files
      in the archive. The format of these extended header records shall
      be as described in pax Extended Header. Each value shall affect
      all subsequent files that do not override that value in their own
      extended header record and until another global extended header
      record is reached that provides another value for the same field.
      The typeflag g global headers should not be used with interchange
      media that could suffer partial data loss in transporting the
      archive.

  For both of these types, the size field shall be the size of the
  extended header records in octets. The other fields in the header
  block are not meaningful to this version of the pax utility. However,
  if this archive is read by a pax utility conforming to the
  ISO POSIX-2:1993 standard, the header block fields are used to create
  a regular file that contains the extended header records as data.
  Therefore, header block field values should be selected to provide
  reasonable file access to this regular file.

  A further difference from the ustar header block is that data blocks
  for files of typeflag 1 (the digit one) (hard link) may be included,
  which means that the size field may be greater than zero. Archives
  created by pax -o linkdata shall include these data blocks with the
  hard links.

  pax Extended Header

  A pax extended header contains values that are inappropriate for the
  ustar header block because of limitations in that format: fields
  requiring a character encoding other than that described in the
  ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard, fields representing file attributes not
  described in the ustar header, and fields whose format or length do
  not fit the requirements of the ustar header. The values in an
  extended header add attributes to the following file (or files; see
  the description of the typeflag g header block) or override values in
  the following header block(s), as indicated in the following list of
  keywords.

  An extended header shall consist of one or more records, each
  constructed as follows:

      "%d %s=%s\n", <length>, <keyword>, <value>

  The extended header records shall be encoded according to the
  ISO/IEC 10646-1:2000 standard UTF-8 encoding. The <length> field,
  <blank>, <equals-sign>, and <newline> shown shall be limited to the
  portable character set, as encoded in UTF-8. The <keyword> fields can
  be any UTF-8 characters. The <length> field shall be the decimal
  length of the extended header record in octets, including the trailing
  <newline>. If there is a hdrcharset extended header in effect for a
  file, the value field for any gname, linkpath, path, and uname
  extended header records shall be encoded using the character set
  specified by the hdrcharset extended header record; otherwise, the
  value field shall be encoded using UTF-8. The value field for all
  other keywords specified by POSIX.1-2017 shall be encoded using UTF-8.

  The <keyword> field shall be one of the entries from the following
  list or a keyword provided as an implementation extension. Keywords
  consisting entirely of lowercase letters, digits, and periods are
  reserved for future standardization. A keyword shall not include an
  <equals-sign>. (In the following list, the notations "file(s)" or
  "block(s)" is used to acknowledge that a keyword affects the following
  single file after a typeflag x extended header, but possibly multiple
  files after typeflag g. Any requirements in the list for pax to
  include a record when in write or copy mode shall apply only when such
  a record has not already been provided through the use of the -o
  option. When used in copy mode, pax shall behave as if an archive had
  been created with applicable extended header records and then
  extracted.)

  atime
      The file access time for the following file(s), equivalent to the
      value of the st_atime member of the stat structure for a file, as
      described by the stat() function. The access time shall be
      restored if the process has appropriate privileges required to do
      so. The format of the <value> shall be as described in pax
      Extended Header File Times.

  charset

      The name of the character set used to encode the data in the
      following file(s). The entries in the following table are defined
      to refer to known standards; additional names may be agreed on
      between the originator and recipient.

        <value>                      Formal Standard
        ---------------------------- -------------------------------
        ISO-IR[]646[]1990            ISO/IEC 646:1990
        ISO-IR[]8859[]1[]1998        ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998
        ISO-IR[]8859[]2[]1999        ISO/IEC 8859-2:1999
        ISO-IR[]8859[]3[]1999        ISO/IEC 8859-3:1999
        ISO-IR[]8859[]4[]1998        ISO/IEC 8859-4:1998
        ISO-IR[]8859[]5[]1999        ISO/IEC 8859-5:1999
        ISO-IR[]8859[]6[]1999        ISO/IEC 8859-6:1999
        ISO-IR[]8859[]7[]1987        ISO/IEC 8859-7:1987
        ISO-IR[]8859[]8[]1999        ISO/IEC 8859-8:1999
        ISO-IR[]8859[]9[]1999        ISO/IEC 8859-9:1999
        ISO-IR[]8859[]10[]1998       ISO/IEC 8859-10:1998
        ISO-IR[]8859[]13[]1998       ISO/IEC 8859-13:1998
        ISO-IR[]8859[]14[]1998       ISO/IEC 8859-14:1998
        ISO-IR[]8859[]15[]1999       ISO/IEC 8859-15:1999
        ISO-IR[]10646[]2000          ISO/IEC 10646:2000
        ISO-IR[]10646[]2000[]UTF-8   ISO/IEC 10646, UTF-8 encoding
        BINARY                       None.

      The encoding is included in an extended header for information
      only; when pax is used as described in POSIX.1-2017, it shall not
      translate the file data into any other encoding. The BINARY entry
      indicates unencoded binary data.

      When used in write or copy mode, it is implementation-defined
      whether pax includes a charset extended header record for a file.

  comment
      A series of characters used as a comment. All characters in the
      <value> field shall be ignored by pax.

  gid
      The group ID of the group that owns the file, expressed as a
      decimal number using digits from the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard.
      This record shall override the gid field in the following header
      block(s). When used in write or copy mode, pax shall include a gid
      extended header record for each file whose group ID is greater
      than 2097151 (octal 7777777).

  gname
      The group of the file(s), formatted as a group name in the group
      database. This record shall override the gid and gname fields in
      the following header block(s), and any gid extended header record.
      When used in read, copy, or list mode, pax shall translate the
      name from the encoding in the header record to the character set
      appropriate for the group database on the receiving system. If any
      of the characters cannot be translated, and if neither the -o
      invalid=UTF-8 option nor the -o invalid=binary option is
      specified, the results are implementation-defined. When used in
      write or copy mode, pax shall include a gname extended header
      record for each file whose group name cannot be represented
      entirely with the letters and digits of the portable character
      set.

  hdrcharset

      The name of the character set used to encode the value field of
      the gname, linkpath, path, and uname pax extended header records.
      The entries in the following table are defined to refer to known
      standards; additional names may be agreed between the originator
      and the recipient.

        <value>                      Formal Standard
        ---------------------------- -------------------------------
        ISO-IR[]10646[]2000[]UTF-8   ISO/IEC 10646, UTF-8 encoding
        BINARY                       None.

      If no hdrcharset extended header record is specified, the default
      character set used to encode all values in extended header records
      shall be the ISO/IEC 10646-1:2000 standard UTF-8 encoding.

      The BINARY entry indicates that all values recorded in extended
      headers for affected files are unencoded binary data from the
      underlying system.

  linkpath
      The pathname of a link being created to another file, of any type,
      previously archived. This record shall override the linkname field
      in the following ustar header block(s). The following ustar header
      block shall determine the type of link created. If typeflag of the
      following header block is 1, it shall be a hard link. If typeflag
      is 2, it shall be a symbolic link and the linkpath value shall be
      the contents of the symbolic link. The pax utility shall translate
      the name of the link (contents of the symbolic link) from the
      encoding in the header to the character set appropriate for the
      local file system. When used in write or copy mode, pax shall
      include a linkpath extended header record for each link whose
      pathname cannot be represented entirely with the members of the
      portable character set other than NUL.

  mtime
      The file modification time of the following file(s), equivalent to
      the value of the st_mtime member of the stat structure for a file,
      as described in the stat() function. This record shall override
      the mtime field in the following header block(s). The modification
      time shall be restored if the process has appropriate privileges
      required to do so. The format of the <value> shall be as described
      in pax Extended Header File Times.

  path

      The pathname of the following file(s). This record shall override
      the name and prefix fields in the following header block(s). The
      pax utility shall translate the pathname of the file from the
      encoding in the header to the character set appropriate for the
      local file system.

      When used in write or copy mode, pax shall include a path extended
      header record for each file whose pathname cannot be represented
      entirely with the members of the portable character set other than
      NUL.

  realtime.any
      The keywords prefixed by "realtime." are reserved for future
      standardization.

  security.any
      The keywords prefixed by "security." are reserved for future
      standardization.

  size
      The size of the file in octets, expressed as a decimal number
      using digits from the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard. This record shall
      override the size field in the following header block(s). When
      used in write or copy mode, pax shall include a size extended
      header record for each file with a size value greater than
      8589934591 (octal 77777777777).

  uid
      The user ID of the file owner, expressed as a decimal number using
      digits from the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard. This record shall
      override the uid field in the following header block(s). When used
      in write or copy mode, pax shall include a uid extended header
      record for each file whose owner ID is greater than 2097151 (octal
      7777777).

  uname
      The owner of the following file(s), formatted as a user name in
      the user database. This record shall override the uid and uname
      fields in the following header block(s), and any uid extended
      header record. When used in read, copy, or list mode, pax shall
      translate the name from the encoding in the header record to the
      character set appropriate for the user database on the receiving
      system. If any of the characters cannot be translated, and if
      neither the -o invalid=UTF-8 option nor the -o invalid=binary
      option is specified, the results are implementation-defined. When
      used in write or copy mode, pax shall include a uname extended
      header record for each file whose user name cannot be represented
      entirely with the letters and digits of the portable character
      set.

  If the <value> field is zero length, it shall delete any header block
  field, previously entered extended header value, or global extended
  header value of the same name.

  If a keyword in an extended header record (or in a -o option-argument)
  overrides or deletes a corresponding field in the ustar header block,
  pax shall ignore the contents of that header block field.

  Unlike the ustar header block fields, NULs shall not delimit <value>s;
  all characters within the <value> field shall be considered data for
  the field. None of the length limitations of the ustar header block
  fields in ustar Header Block shall apply to the extended header
  records.

  pax Extended Header Keyword Precedence

  This section describes the precedence in which the various header
  records and fields and command line options are selected to apply to a
  file in the archive. When pax is used in read or list modes, it shall
  determine a file attribute in the following sequence:

  1.  If -o delete=keyword-prefix is used, the affected attributes shall
      be determined from step 7., if applicable, or ignored otherwise.

  2.  If -o keyword:= is used, the affected attributes shall be ignored.

  3.  If -o keyword:=value is used, the affected attribute shall be
      assigned the value.

  4.  If there is a typeflag x extended header record, the affected
      attribute shall be assigned the <value>. When extended header
      records conflict, the last one given in the header shall take
      precedence.

  5.  If -o keyword=value is used, the affected attribute shall be
      assigned the value.

  6.  If there is a typeflag g global extended header record, the
      affected attribute shall be assigned the <value>. When global
      extended header records conflict, the last one given in the global
      header shall take precedence.

  7.  Otherwise, the attribute shall be determined from the ustar header
      block.

  pax Extended Header File Times

  The pax utility shall write an mtime record for each file in write or
  copy modes if the file's modification time cannot be represented
  exactly in the ustar header logical record described in ustar
  Interchange Format. This can occur if the time is out of ustar range,
  or if the file system of the underlying implementation supports
  non-integer time granularities and the time is not an integer. All of
  these time records shall be formatted as a decimal representation of
  the time in seconds since the Epoch. If a <period> ( '.' ) decimal
  point character is present, the digits to the right of the point shall
  represent the units of a subsecond timing granularity, where the first
  digit is tenths of a second and each subsequent digit is a tenth of
  the previous digit. In read or copy mode, the pax utility shall
  truncate the time of a file to the greatest value that is not greater
  than the input header file time. In write or copy mode, the pax
  utility shall output a time exactly if it can be represented exactly
  as a decimal number, and otherwise shall generate only enough digits
  so that the same time shall be recovered if the file is extracted on a
  system whose underlying implementation supports the same time
  granularity.

  ustar Interchange Format

  A ustar archive tape or file shall contain a series of logical
  records. Each logical record shall be a fixed-size logical record of
  512 octets (see below). Although this format may be thought of as
  being stored on 9-track industry-standard 12.7 mm (0.5 in) magnetic
  tape, other types of transportable media are not excluded. Each file
  archived shall be represented by a header logical record that
  describes the file, followed by zero or more logical records that give
  the contents of the file. At the end of the archive file there shall
  be two 512-octet logical records filled with binary zeros, interpreted
  as an end-of-archive indicator.

  The logical records may be grouped for physical I/O operations, as
  described under the -b blocksize and -x ustar options. Each group of
  logical records may be written with a single operation equivalent to
  the write() function. On magnetic tape, the result of this write shall
  be a single tape physical block. The last physical block shall always
  be the full size, so logical records after the two zero logical
  records may contain undefined data.

  The header logical record shall be structured as shown in the
  following table. All lengths and offsets are in decimal.

  Table: ustar Header Block

    Field Name   Octet Offset   Length (in Octets)
    ------------ -------------- --------------------
    name         0              100
    mode         100            8
    uid          108            8
    gid          116            8
    size         124            12
    mtime        136            12
    chksum       148            8
    typeflag     156            1
    linkname     157            100
    magic        257            6
    version      263            2
    uname        265            32
    gname        297            32
    devmajor     329            8
    devminor     337            8
    prefix       345            155

  All characters in the header logical record shall be represented in
  the coded character set of the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard. For maximum
  portability between implementations, names should be selected from
  characters represented by the portable filename character set as
  octets with the most significant bit zero. If an implementation
  supports the use of characters outside of <slash> and the portable
  filename character set in names for files, users, and groups, one or
  more implementation-defined encodings of these characters shall be
  provided for interchange purposes.

  However, the pax utility shall never create filenames on the local
  system that cannot be accessed via the procedures described in
  POSIX.1-2017. If a filename is found on the medium that would create
  an invalid filename, it is implementation-defined whether the data
  from the file is stored on the file hierarchy and under what name it
  is stored. The pax utility may choose to ignore these files as long as
  it produces an error indicating that the file is being ignored.

  Each field within the header logical record is contiguous; that is,
  there is no padding used. Each character on the archive medium shall
  be stored contiguously.

  The fields magic, uname, and gname are character strings each
  terminated by a NUL character. The fields name, linkname, and prefix
  are NUL-terminated character strings except when all characters in the
  array contain non-NUL characters including the last character. The
  version field is two octets containing the characters "00"
  (zero-zero). The typeflag contains a single character. All other
  fields are leading zero-filled octal numbers using digits from the
  ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard IRV. Each numeric field is terminated by one
  or more <space> or NUL characters.

  The name and the prefix fields shall produce the pathname of the file.
  A new pathname shall be formed, if prefix is not an empty string (its
  first character is not NUL), by concatenating prefix (up to the first
  NUL character), a <slash> character, and name; otherwise, name is used
  alone. In either case, name is terminated at the first NUL character.
  If prefix begins with a NUL character, it shall be ignored. In this
  manner, pathnames of at most 256 characters can be supported. If a
  pathname does not fit in the space provided, pax shall notify the user
  of the error, and shall not store any part of the file-header or
  data-on the medium.

  The linkname field, described below, shall not use the prefix to
  produce a pathname. As such, a linkname is limited to 100 characters.
  If the name does not fit in the space provided, pax shall notify the
  user of the error, and shall not attempt to store the link on the
  medium.

  The mode field provides 12 bits encoded in the ISO/IEC 646:1991
  standard octal digit representation. The encoded bits shall represent
  the following values:

  Table: ustar mode Field

    Bit Value   POSIX.1-2017 Bit   Description
    ----------- ------------------ -------------------------------------------------
    04000       S_ISUID            Set UID on execution.
    02000       S_ISGID            Set GID on execution.
    01000       <reserved>         Reserved for future standardization.
    00400       S_IRUSR            Read permission for file owner class.
    00200       S_IWUSR            Write permission for file owner class.
    00100       S_IXUSR            Execute/search permission for file owner class.
    00040       S_IRGRP            Read permission for file group class.
    00020       S_IWGRP            Write permission for file group class.
    00010       S_IXGRP            Execute/search permission for file group class.
    00004       S_IROTH            Read permission for file other class.
    00002       S_IWOTH            Write permission for file other class.
    00001       S_IXOTH            Execute/search permission for file other class.

  When appropriate privileges are required to set one of these mode
  bits, and the user restoring the files from the archive does not have
  appropriate privileges, the mode bits for which the user does not have
  appropriate privileges shall be ignored. Some of the mode bits in the
  archive format are not mentioned elsewhere in this volume of
  POSIX.1-2017. If the implementation does not support those bits, they
  may be ignored.

  The uid and gid fields are the user and group ID of the owner and
  group of the file, respectively.

  The size field is the size of the file in octets. If the typeflag
  field is set to specify a file to be of type 1 (a link) or 2 (a
  symbolic link), the size field shall be specified as zero. If the
  typeflag field is set to specify a file of type 5 (directory), the
  size field shall be interpreted as described under the definition of
  that record type. No data logical records are stored for types 1, 2,
  or 5. If the typeflag field is set to 3 (character special file), 4
  (block special file), or 6 (FIFO), the meaning of the size field is
  unspecified by this volume of POSIX.1-2017, and no data logical
  records shall be stored on the medium. Additionally, for type 6, the
  size field shall be ignored when reading. If the typeflag field is set
  to any other value, the number of logical records written following
  the header shall be ( size+511)/512, ignoring any fraction in the
  result of the division.

  The mtime field shall be the modification time of the file at the time
  it was archived. It is the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard representation of
  the octal value of the modification time obtained from the stat()
  function.

  The chksum field shall be the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard IRV
  representation of the octal value of the simple sum of all octets in
  the header logical record. Each octet in the header shall be treated
  as an unsigned value. These values shall be added to an unsigned
  integer, initialized to zero, the precision of which is not less than
  17 bits. When calculating the checksum, the chksum field is treated as
  if it were all <space> characters.

  The typeflag field specifies the type of file archived. If a
  particular implementation does not recognize the type, or the user
  does not have appropriate privileges to create that type, the file
  shall be extracted as if it were a regular file if the file type is
  defined to have a meaning for the size field that could cause data
  logical records to be written on the medium (see the previous
  description for size). If conversion to a regular file occurs, the pax
  utility shall produce an error indicating that the conversion took
  place. All of the typeflag fields shall be coded in the
  ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard IRV:

  0
      Represents a regular file. For backwards-compatibility, a typeflag
      value of binary zero ( '\0' ) should be recognized as meaning a
      regular file when extracting files from the archive. Archives
      written with this version of the archive file format create
      regular files with a typeflag value of the ISO/IEC 646:1991
      standard IRV '0'.

  1
      Represents a file linked to another file, of any type, previously
      archived. Such files are identified by having the same device and
      file serial numbers, and pathnames that refer to different
      directory entries. All such files shall be archived as linked
      files. The linked-to name is specified in the linkname field with
      a NUL-character terminator if it is less than 100 octets in
      length.

  2
      Represents a symbolic link. The contents of the symbolic link
      shall be stored in the linkname field.

  3,4
      Represent character special files and block special files
      respectively. In this case the devmajor and devminor fields shall
      contain information defining the device, the format of which is
      unspecified by this volume of POSIX.1-2017. Implementations may
      map the device specifications to their own local specification or
      may ignore the entry.

  5
      Specifies a directory or subdirectory. On systems where disk
      allocation is performed on a directory basis, the size field shall
      contain the maximum number of octets (which may be rounded to the
      nearest disk block allocation unit) that the directory may hold. A
      size field of zero indicates no such limiting. Systems that do not
      support limiting in this manner should ignore the size field.

  6
      Specifies a FIFO special file. Note that the archiving of a FIFO
      file archives the existence of this file and not its contents.

  7
      Reserved to represent a file to which an implementation has
      associated some high-performance attribute. Implementations
      without such extensions should treat this file as a regular file
      (type 0).

  A-Z
      The letters 'A' to 'Z', inclusive, are reserved for custom
      implementations. All other values are reserved for future versions
      of this standard.

  It is unspecified whether files with pathnames that refer to the same
  directory entry are archived as linked files or as separate files. If
  they are archived as linked files, this means that attempting to
  extract both pathnames from the resulting archive will always cause an
  error (unless the -u option is used) because the link cannot be
  created.

  It is unspecified whether files with the same device and file serial
  numbers being appended to an archive are treated as linked files to
  members that were in the archive before the append.

  Attempts to archive a socket shall produce a diagnostic message when
  ustar interchange format is used, but may be allowed when pax
  interchange format is used. Handling of other file types is
  implementation-defined.

  The magic field is the specification that this archive was output in
  this archive format. If this field contains ustar (the five characters
  from the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard IRV shown followed by NUL), the
  uname and gname fields shall contain the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard IRV
  representation of the owner and group of the file, respectively
  (truncated to fit, if necessary). When the file is restored by a
  privileged, protection-preserving version of the utility, the user and
  group databases shall be scanned for these names. If found, the user
  and group IDs contained within these files shall be used rather than
  the values contained within the uid and gid fields.

  cpio Interchange Format

  The octet-oriented cpio archive format shall be a series of entries,
  each comprising a header that describes the file, the name of the
  file, and then the contents of the file.

  An archive may be recorded as a series of fixed-size blocks of octets.
  This blocking shall be used only to make physical I/O more efficient.
  The last group of blocks shall always be at the full size.

  For the octet-oriented cpio archive format, the individual entry
  information shall be in the order indicated and described by the
  following table; see also the <cpio.h> header.

  Table: Octet-Oriented cpio Archive Entry

    Header Field Name      Length (in Octets)   Interpreted as
    ---------------------- -------------------- -----------------
    c_magic                6                    Octal number
    c_dev                  6                    Octal number
    c_ino                  6                    Octal number
    c_mode                 6                    Octal number
    c_uid                  6                    Octal number
    c_gid                  6                    Octal number
    c_nlink                6                    Octal number
    c_rdev                 6                    Octal number
    c_mtime                11                   Octal number
    c_namesize             6                    Octal number
    c_filesize             11                   Octal number
    Filename Field Name    Length               Interpreted as
    c_name                 c_namesize           Pathname string
    File Data Field Name   Length               Interpreted as
    c_filedata             c_filesize           Data

  cpio Header

  For each file in the archive, a header as defined previously shall be
  written. The information in the header fields is written as streams of
  the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard characters interpreted as octal numbers.
  The octal numbers shall be extended to the necessary length by
  appending the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard IRV zeros at the
  most-significant-digit end of the number; the result is written to the
  most-significant digit of the stream of octets first. The fields shall
  be interpreted as follows:

  c_magic
      Identify the archive as being a transportable archive by
      containing the identifying value "070707".

  c_dev, c_ino
      Contains values that uniquely identify the file within the archive
      (that is, no files contain the same pair of c_dev and c_ino values
      unless they are links to the same file). The values shall be
      determined in an unspecified manner.

  c_mode

      Contains the file type and access permissions as defined in the
      following table.

      Table: Values for cpio c_mode Field

        File Permissions Name   Value     Indicates
        ----------------------- --------- ------------------------
        C_IRUSR                 000400    Read by owner
        C_IWUSR                 000200    Write by owner
        C_IXUSR                 000100    Execute by owner
        C_IRGRP                 000040    Read by group
        C_IWGRP                 000020    Write by group
        C_IXGRP                 000010    Execute by group
        C_IROTH                 000004    Read by others
        C_IWOTH                 000002    Write by others
        C_IXOTH                 000001    Execute by others
        C_ISUID                 004000    Set uid
        C_ISGID                 002000    Set gid
        C_ISVTX                 001000    Reserved
        File Type Name          Value     Indicates
        C_ISDIR                 040000    Directory
        C_ISFIFO                010000    FIFO
        C_ISREG                 0100000   Regular file
        C_ISLNK                 0120000   Symbolic link
        C_ISBLK                 060000    Block special file
        C_ISCHR                 020000    Character special file
        C_ISSOCK                0140000   Socket
        C_ISCTG                 0110000   Reserved

      Directories, FIFOs, symbolic links, and regular files shall be
      supported on a system conforming to this volume of POSIX.1-2017;
      additional values defined previously are reserved for
      compatibility with existing systems. Additional file types may be
      supported; however, such files should not be written to archives
      intended to be transported to other systems.

  c_uid
      Contains the user ID of the owner.

  c_gid
      Contains the group ID of the group.

  c_nlink
      Contains a number greater than or equal to the number of links in
      the archive referencing the file. If the -a option is used to
      append to a cpio archive, then the pax utility need not account
      for the files in the existing part of the archive when calculating
      the c_nlink values for the appended part of the archive, and need
      not alter the c_nlink values in the existing part of the archive
      if additional files with the same c_dev and c_ino values are
      appended to the archive.

  c_rdev
      Contains implementation-defined information for character or block
      special files.

  c_mtime
      Contains the latest time of modification of the file at the time
      the archive was created.

  c_namesize
      Contains the length of the pathname, including the terminating NUL
      character.

  c_filesize
      Contains the length in octets of the data section following the
      header structure.

  cpio Filename

  The c_name field shall contain the pathname of the file. The length of
  this field in octets is the value of c_namesize.

  If a filename is found on the medium that would create an invalid
  pathname, it is implementation-defined whether the data from the file
  is stored on the file hierarchy and under what name it is stored.

  All characters shall be represented in the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard
  IRV. For maximum portability between implementations, names should be
  selected from characters represented by the portable filename
  character set as octets with the most significant bit zero. If an
  implementation supports the use of characters outside the portable
  filename character set in names for files, users, and groups, one or
  more implementation-defined encodings of these characters shall be
  provided for interchange purposes. However, the pax utility shall
  never create filenames on the local system that cannot be accessed via
  the procedures described previously in this volume of POSIX.1-2017. If
  a filename is found on the medium that would create an invalid
  filename, it is implementation-defined whether the data from the file
  is stored on the local file system and under what name it is stored.
  The pax utility may choose to ignore these files as long as it
  produces an error indicating that the file is being ignored.

  cpio File Data

  Following c_name, there shall be c_filesize octets of data.
  Interpretation of such data occurs in a manner dependent on the file.
  For regular files, the data shall consist of the contents of the file.
  For symbolic links, the data shall consist of the contents of the
  symbolic link. If c_filesize is zero, no data shall be contained in
  c_filedata.

  When restoring from an archive:

  -   If the user does not have appropriate privileges to create a file
      of the specified type, pax shall ignore the entry and write an
      error message to standard error.

  -   Only regular files and symbolic links have data to be restored.
      Presuming a regular file meets any selection criteria that might
      be imposed on the format-reading utility by the user, such data
      shall be restored.

  -   If a user does not have appropriate privileges to set a particular
      mode flag, the flag shall be ignored. Some of the mode flags in
      the archive format are not mentioned elsewhere in this volume of
      POSIX.1-2017. If the implementation does not support those flags,
      they may be ignored.

  cpio Special Entries

  FIFO special files, directories, and the trailer shall be recorded
  with c_filesize equal to zero. Symbolic links shall be recorded with
  c_filesize equal to the length of the contents of the symbolic link.
  For other special files, c_filesize is unspecified by this volume of
  POSIX.1-2017. The header for the next file entry in the archive shall
  be written directly after the last octet of the file entry preceding
  it. A header denoting the filename TRAILER!!! shall indicate the end
  of the archive; the contents of octets in the last block of the
  archive following such a header are undefined.

EXIT STATUS

  The following exit values shall be returned:

   0
      All files were processed successfully.

  >0
      An error occurred.

CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS

  If pax cannot create a file or a link when reading an archive or
  cannot find a file when writing an archive, or cannot preserve the
  user ID, group ID, or file mode when the -p option is specified, a
  diagnostic message shall be written to standard error and a non-zero
  exit status shall be returned, but processing shall continue. In the
  case where pax cannot create a link to a file, pax shall not, by
  default, create a second copy of the file.

  If the extraction of a file from an archive is prematurely terminated
  by a signal or error, pax may have only partially extracted the file
  or (if the -n option was not specified) may have extracted a file of
  the same name as that specified by the user, but which is not the file
  the user wanted. Additionally, the file modes of extracted directories
  may have additional bits from the S_IRWXU mask set as well as
  incorrect modification and access times.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following sections are informative.

APPLICATION USAGE

  Caution is advised when using the -a option to append to a cpio format
  archive. If any of the files being appended happen to be given the
  same c_dev and c_ino values as a file in the existing part of the
  archive, then they may be treated as links to that file on extraction.
  Thus, it is risky to use -a with cpio format except when it is done on
  the same system that the original archive was created on, and with the
  same pax utility, and in the knowledge that there has been little or
  no file system activity since the original archive was created that
  could lead to any of the files appended being given the same c_dev and
  c_ino values as an unrelated file in the existing part of the archive.
  Also, when (intentionally) appending additional links to a file in the
  existing part of the archive, the c_nlink values in the modified
  archive can be smaller than the number of links to the file in the
  archive, which may mean that the links are not preserved on
  extraction.

  The -p (privileges) option was invented to reconcile differences
  between historical tar and cpio implementations. In particular, the
  two utilities use -m in diametrically opposed ways. The -p option also
  provides a consistent means of extending the ways in which future file
  attributes can be addressed, such as for enhanced security systems or
  high-performance files. Although it may seem complex, there are really
  two modes that are most commonly used:

  -p e
      ``Preserve everything". This would be used by the historical
      superuser, someone with all appropriate privileges, to preserve
      all aspects of the files as they are recorded in the archive. The
      e flag is the sum of o and p, and other implementation-defined
      attributes.

  -p p
      ``Preserve" the file mode bits. This would be used by the user
      with regular privileges who wished to preserve aspects of the file
      other than the ownership. The file times are preserved by default,
      but two other flags are offered to disable these and use the time
      of extraction.

  The one pathname per line format of standard input precludes pathnames
  containing <newline> characters. Although such pathnames violate the
  portable filename guidelines, they may exist and their presence may
  inhibit usage of pax within shell scripts. This problem is inherited
  from historical archive programs. The problem can be avoided by
  listing filename arguments on the command line instead of on standard
  input.

  It is almost certain that appropriate privileges are required for pax
  to accomplish parts of this volume of POSIX.1-2017. Specifically,
  creating files of type block special or character special, restoring
  file access times unless the files are owned by the user (the -t
  option), or preserving file owner, group, and mode (the -p option) all
  probably require appropriate privileges.

  In read mode, implementations are permitted to overwrite files when
  the archive has multiple members with the same name. This may fail if
  permissions on the first version of the file do not permit it to be
  overwritten.

  The cpio and ustar formats can only support files up to 8589934592
  bytes (8 * 2^30) in size.

  When archives containing binary header information are listed , the
  filenames printed may cause strange behavior on some terminals.

  When all of the following are true:

  1.  A file of type directory is being placed into an archive.

  2.  The ustar archive format is being used.

  3.  The pathname of the directory is less than or equal to 155 bytes
      long (it will fit in the prefix field in the ustar header block).

  4.  The last component of the pathname of the directory is longer than
      100 bytes long (it will not fit in the name field in the ustar
      header block).

  some implementations of the pax utility will place the entire
  directory pathname in the prefix field, set the name field to an empty
  string, and place the directory in the archive. Other implementations
  of the pax utility will give an error under these conditions because
  the name field is not large enough to hold the last component of the
  directory name. This standard allows either behavior. However, when
  extracting a directory from a ustar format archive, this standard
  requires that all implementations be able to extract a directory even
  if the name field contains an empty string as long as the prefix field
  does not also contain an empty string.

EXAMPLES

  The following command:

      pax -w -f /dev/rmt/1m .

  copies the contents of the current directory to tape drive 1, medium
  density (assuming historical System V device naming procedures-the
  historical BSD device name would be /dev/rmt9).

  The following commands:

      mkdir newdir
      pax -rw olddir newdir

  copy the olddir directory hierarchy to newdir.

      pax -r -s ',^//*usr//*,,' -f a.pax

  reads the archive a.pax, with all files rooted in /usr in the archive
  extracted relative to the current directory.

  Using the option:

      -o listopt="%M %(atime)T %(size)D %(name)s"

  overrides the default output description in Standard Output and
  instead writes:

      -rw-rw--- Jan 12 15:53 2003 1492 /usr/foo/bar

  Using the options:

      -o listopt='%L\t%(size)D\n%.7' \
      -o listopt='(name)s\n%(atime)T\n%T'

  overrides the default output description in Standard Output and
  instead writes:

      /usr/foo/bar -> /tmp   1492
      /usr/fo
      Jan 12 15:53 1991
      Jan 31 15:53 2003

RATIONALE

  The pax utility was new for the ISO POSIX-2:1993 standard. It
  represents a peaceful compromise between advocates of the historical
  tar and cpio utilities.

  A fundamental difference between cpio and tar was in the way
  directories were treated. The cpio utility did not treat directories
  differently from other files, and to select a directory and its
  contents required that each file in the hierarchy be explicitly
  specified. For tar, a directory matched every file in the file
  hierarchy it rooted.

  The pax utility offers both interfaces; by default, directories map
  into the file hierarchy they root. The -d option causes pax to skip
  any file not explicitly referenced, as cpio historically did. The
  tar - style behavior was chosen as the default because it was believed
  that this was the more common usage and because tar is the more
  commonly available interface, as it was historically provided on both
  System V and BSD implementations.

  The data interchange format specification in this volume of
  POSIX.1-2017 requires that processes with "appropriate privileges''
  shall always restore the ownership and permissions of extracted files
  exactly as archived. If viewed from the historic equivalence between
  superuser and "appropriate privileges", there are two problems with
  this requirement. First, users running as superusers may unknowingly
  set dangerous permissions on extracted files. Second, it is needlessly
  limiting, in that superusers cannot extract files and own them as
  superuser unless the archive was created by the superuser. (It should
  be noted that restoration of ownerships and permissions for the
  superuser, by default, is historical practice in cpio, but not in
  tar.) In order to avoid these two problems, the pax specification has
  an additional "privilege" mechanism, the -p option. Only a pax
  invocation with the privileges needed, and which has the -p option set
  using the e specification character, has appropriate privileges to
  restore full ownership and permission information.

  Note also that this volume of POSIX.1-2017 requires that the file
  ownership and access permissions shall be set, on extraction, in the
  same fashion as the creat() function when provided with the mode
  stored in the archive. This means that the file creation mask of the
  user is applied to the file permissions.

  Users should note that directories may be created by pax while
  extracting files with permissions that are different from those that
  existed at the time the archive was created. When extracting sensitive
  information into a directory hierarchy that no longer exists, users
  are encouraged to set their file creation mask appropriately to
  protect these files during extraction.

  The table of contents output is written to standard output to
  facilitate pipeline processing.

  An early proposal had hard links displaying for all pathnames. This
  was removed because it complicates the output of the case where -v is
  not specified and does not match historical cpio usage. The hard-link
  information is available in the -v display.

  The description of the -l option allows implementations to make hard
  links to symbolic links. Earlier versions of this standard did not
  specify any way to create a hard link to a symbolic link, but many
  implementations provided this capability as an extension. If there are
  hard links to symbolic links when an archive is created, the
  implementation is required to archive the hard link in the archive
  (unless -H or -L is specified). When in read mode and in copy mode,
  implementations supporting hard links to symbolic links should use
  them when appropriate.

  The archive formats inherited from the POSIX.1-1990 standard have
  certain restrictions that have been brought along from historical
  usage. For example, there are restrictions on the length of pathnames
  stored in the archive. When pax is used in copy(-rw) mode (copying
  directory hierarchies), the ability to use extensions from the -x pax
  format overcomes these restrictions.

  The default blocksize value of 5120 bytes for cpio was selected
  because it is one of the standard block-size values for cpio, set when
  the -B option is specified. (The other default block-size value for
  cpio is 512 bytes, and this was considered to be too small.) The
  default block value of 10240 bytes for tar was selected because that
  is the standard block-size value for BSD tar. The maximum block size
  of 32256 bytes (2¹⁵-512 bytes) is the largest multiple of 512 bytes
  that fits into a signed 16-bit tape controller transfer register.
  There are known limitations in some historical systems that would
  prevent larger blocks from being accepted. Historical values were
  chosen to improve compatibility with historical scripts using dd or
  similar utilities to manipulate archives. Also, default block sizes
  for any file type other than character special file has been deleted
  from this volume of POSIX.1-2017 as unimportant and not likely to
  affect the structure of the resulting archive.

  Implementations are permitted to modify the block-size value based on
  the archive format or the device to which the archive is being
  written. This is to provide implementations with the opportunity to
  take advantage of special types of devices, and it should not be used
  without a great deal of consideration as it almost certainly decreases
  archive portability.

  The intended use of the -n option was to permit extraction of one or
  more files from the archive without processing the entire archive.
  This was viewed by the standard developers as offering significant
  performance advantages over historical implementations. The -n option
  in early proposals had three effects; the first was to cause special
  characters in patterns to not be treated specially. The second was to
  cause only the first file that matched a pattern to be extracted. The
  third was to cause pax to write a diagnostic message to standard error
  when no file was found matching a specified pattern. Only the second
  behavior is retained by this volume of POSIX.1-2017, for many reasons.
  First, it is in general not acceptable for a single option to have
  multiple effects. Second, the ability to make pattern matching
  characters act as normal characters is useful for parts of pax other
  than file extraction. Third, a finer degree of control over the
  special characters is useful because users may wish to normalize only
  a single special character in a single filename. Fourth, given a more
  general escape mechanism, the previous behavior of the -n option can
  be easily obtained using the -s option or a sed script. Finally,
  writing a diagnostic message when a pattern specified by the user is
  unmatched by any file is useful behavior in all cases.

  In this version, the -n was removed from the copy mode synopsis of
  pax; it is inapplicable because there are no pattern operands
  specified in this mode.

  There is another method than pax for copying subtrees in POSIX.1-2017
  described as part of the cp utility. Both methods are historical
  practice: cp provides a simpler, more intuitive interface, while pax
  offers a finer granularity of control. Each provides additional
  functionality to the other; in particular, pax maintains the hard-link
  structure of the hierarchy while cp does not. It is the intention of
  the standard developers that the results be similar (using appropriate
  option combinations in both utilities). The results are not required
  to be identical; there seemed insufficient gain to applications to
  balance the difficulty of implementations having to guarantee that the
  results would be exactly identical.

  A single archive may span more than one file. It is suggested that
  implementations provide informative messages to the user on standard
  error whenever the archive file is changed.

  The -d option (do not create intermediate directories not listed in
  the archive) found in early proposals was originally provided as a
  complement to the historic -d option of cpio. It has been deleted.

  The -s option in early proposals specified a subset of the
  substitution command from the ed utility. As there was no reason for
  only a subset to be supported, the -s option is now compatible with
  the current ed specification. Since the delimiter can be any non-null
  character, the following usage with single <space> characters is
  valid:

      pax -s " foo bar " ...

  The -t description is worded so as to note that this may cause the
  access time update caused by some other activity (which occurs while
  the file is being read) to be overwritten.

  The default behavior of pax with regard to file modification times is
  the same as historical implementations of tar. It is not the
  historical behavior of cpio.

  Because the -i option uses /dev/tty, utilities without a controlling
  terminal are not able to use this option.

  The -y option, found in early proposals, has been deleted because a
  line containing a single <period> for the -i option has equivalent
  functionality. The special lines for the -i option (a single <period>
  and the empty line) are historical practice in cpio.

  In early drafts, a -e charmap option was included to increase
  portability of files between systems using different coded character
  sets. This option was omitted because it was apparent that consensus
  could not be formed for it. In this version, the use of UTF-8 should
  be an adequate substitute.

  The ISO POSIX-2:1993 standard and ISO POSIX-1 standard requirements
  for pax, however, made it very difficult to create a single archive
  containing files created using extended characters provided by
  different locales. This version adds the hdrcharset keyword to make it
  possible to archive files in these cases without dropping files due to
  translation errors.

  Translating filenames and other attributes from a locale's encoding to
  UTF-8 and then back again can lose information, as the resulting
  filename might not be byte-for-byte equivalent to the original. To
  avoid this problem, users can specify the -o hdrcharset=binary option,
  which will cause the resulting archive to use binary format for all
  names and attributes. Such archives are not portable among hosts that
  use different native encodings (e.g., EBCDIC versus ASCII-based
  encodings), but they will allow interchange among the vast majority of
  POSIX file systems in practical use. Also, the -o hdrcharset=binary
  option will cause pax in copy mode to behave more like other standard
  utilities such as cp.

  If the values specified by the -o exthdr.name=value, -o
  globexthdr.name=value, or by $TMPDIR (if -o globexthdr.name is not
  specified) require a character encoding other than that described in
  the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard, a path extended header record will have
  to be created for the file. If a hdrcharset extended header record is
  active for such headers, it will determine the codeset used for the
  value field in these extended path header records. These path extended
  header records always need to be created when writing an archive even
  if hdrcharset=binary has been specified and would contain the same
  (binary) data that appears in the ustar header record prefix and name
  fields. (In other words, an extended header path record is always
  required to be generated if the prefix or name fields contain
  non-ASCII characters even when hdrcharset=binary is also in effect for
  that file.)

  The -k option was added to address international concerns about the
  dangers involved in the character set transformations of -e (if the
  target character set were different from the source, the filenames
  might be transformed into names matching existing files) and also was
  made more general to protect files transferred between file systems
  with different {NAME_MAX} values (truncating a filename on a smaller
  system might also inadvertently overwrite existing files). As stated,
  it prevents any overwriting, even if the target file is older than the
  source. This version adds more granularity of options to solve this
  problem by introducing the -o invalid=option -specifically the UTF-8
  and binary actions. (Note that an existing file is still subject to
  overwriting in this case. The -k option closes that loophole.)

  Some of the file characteristics referenced in this volume of
  POSIX.1-2017 might not be supported by some archive formats. For
  example, neither the tar nor cpio formats contain the file access
  time. For this reason, the e specification character has been
  provided, intended to cause all file characteristics specified in the
  archive to be retained.

  It is required that extracted directories, by default, have their
  access and modification times and permissions set to the values
  specified in the archive. This has obvious problems in that the
  directories are almost certainly modified after being extracted and
  that directory permissions may not permit file creation. One possible
  solution is to create directories with the mode specified in the
  archive, as modified by the umask of the user, with sufficient
  permissions to allow file creation. After all files have been
  extracted, pax would then reset the access and modification times and
  permissions as necessary.

  The list-mode formatting description borrows heavily from the one
  defined by the printf utility. However, since there is no separate
  operand list to get conversion arguments, the format was extended to
  allow specifying the name of the conversion argument as part of the
  conversion specification.

  The T conversion specifier allows time fields to be displayed in any
  of the date formats. Unlike the ls utility, pax does not adjust the
  format when the date is less than six months in the past. This makes
  parsing the output more predictable.

  The D conversion specifier handles the ability to display the
  major/minor or file size, as with ls, by using %-8(size)D.

  The L conversion specifier handles the ls display for symbolic links.

  Conversion specifiers were added to generate existing known types used
  for ls.

  pax Interchange Format

  The new POSIX data interchange format was developed primarily to
  satisfy international concerns that the ustar and cpio formats did not
  provide for file, user, and group names encoded in characters outside
  a subset of the ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard. The standard developers
  realized that this new POSIX data interchange format should be very
  extensible because there were other requirements they foresaw in the
  near future:

  -   Support international character encodings and locale information

  -   Support security information (ACLs, and so on)

  -   Support future file types, such as realtime or contiguous files

  -   Include data areas for implementation use

  -   Support systems with words larger than 32 bits and timers with
      subsecond granularity

  The following were not goals for this format because these are better
  handled by separate utilities or are inappropriate for a portable
  format:

  -   Encryption

  -   Compression

  -   Data translation between locales and codesets

  -   inode storage

  The format chosen to support the goals is an extension of the ustar
  format. Of the two formats previously available, only the ustar format
  was selected for extensions because:

  -   It was easier to extend in an upwards-compatible way. It offered
      version flags and header block type fields with room for future
      standardization. The cpio format, while possessing a more flexible
      file naming methodology, could not be extended without breaking
      some theoretical implementation or using a dummy filename that
      could be a legitimate filename.

  -   Industry experience since the original " tar wars" fought in
      developing the ISO POSIX-1 standard has clearly been in favor of
      the ustar format, which is generally the default output format
      selected for pax implementations on new systems.

  The new format was designed with one additional goal in mind:
  reasonable behavior when an older tar or pax utility happened to read
  an archive. Since the POSIX.1-1990 standard mandated that a
  "format-reading utility" had to treat unrecognized typeflag values as
  regular files, this allowed the format to include all the extended
  information in a pseudo-regular file that preceded each real file. An
  option is given that allows the archive creator to set up reasonable
  names for these files on the older systems. Also, the normative text
  suggests that reasonable file access values be used for this ustar
  header block. Making these header files inaccessible for convenient
  reading and deleting would not be reasonable. File permissions of 600
  or 700 are suggested.

  The ustar typeflag field was used to accommodate the additional
  functionality of the new format rather than magic or version because
  the POSIX.1-1990 standard (and, by reference, the previous version of
  pax), mandated the behavior of the format-reading utility when it
  encountered an unknown typeflag, but was silent about the other two
  fields.

  Early proposals for the first version of this standard contained a
  proposed archive format that was based on compatibility with the
  standard for tape files (ISO 1001, similar to the format used
  historically on many mainframes and minicomputers). This format was
  overly complex and required considerable overhead in volume and header
  records. Furthermore, the standard developers felt that it would not
  be acceptable to the community of POSIX developers, so it was later
  changed to be a format more closely related to historical practice on
  POSIX systems.

  The prefix and name split of pathnames in ustar was replaced by the
  single path extended header record for simplicity.

  The concept of a global extended header (typeflag g) was
  controversial. If this were applied to an archive being recorded on
  magnetic tape, a few unreadable blocks at the beginning of the tape
  could be a serious problem; a utility attempting to extract as many
  files as possible from a damaged archive could lose a large percentage
  of file header information in this case. However, if the archive were
  on a reliable medium, such as a CD-ROM, the global extended header
  offers considerable potential size reductions by eliminating redundant
  information. Thus, the text warns against using the global method for
  unreliable media and provides a method for implanting global
  information in the extended header for each file, rather than in the
  typeflag g records.

  No facility for data translation or filtering on a per-file basis is
  included because the standard developers could not invent an interface
  that would allow this in an efficient manner. If a filter, such as
  encryption or compression, is to be applied to all the files, it is
  more efficient to apply the filter to the entire archive as a single
  file. The standard developers considered interfaces that would invoke
  a shell script for each file going into or out of the archive, but the
  system overhead in this approach was considered to be too high.

  One such approach would be to have filter= records that give a
  pathname for an executable. When the program is invoked, the file and
  archive would be open for standard input/output and all the header
  fields would be available as environment variables or command-line
  arguments. The standard developers did discuss such schemes, but they
  were omitted from POSIX.1-2017 due to concerns about excessive
  overhead. Also, the program itself would need to be in the archive if
  it were to be used portably.

  There is currently no portable means of identifying the character
  set(s) used for a file in the file system. Therefore, pax has not been
  given a mechanism to generate charset records automatically. The only
  portable means of doing this is for the user to write the archive
  using the -o charset=string command line option. This assumes that all
  of the files in the archive use the same encoding. The
  "implementation-defined" text is included to allow for a system that
  can identify the encodings used for each of its files.

  The table of standards that accompanies the charset record description
  is acknowledged to be very limited. Only a limited number of character
  set standards is reasonable for maximal interchange. Any character set
  is, of course, possible by prior agreement. It was suggested that
  EBCDIC be listed, but it was omitted because it is not defined by a
  formal standard. Formal standards, and then only those with reasonably
  large followings, can be included here, simply as a matter of
  practicality. The <value>s represent names of officially registered
  character sets in the format required by the ISO 2375:1985 standard.

  The normal <comma> or <blank>-separated list rules are not followed in
  the case of keyword options to allow ease of argument parsing for
  getopts.

  Further information on character encodings is in pax Archive Character
  Set Encoding/Decoding .

  The standard developers have reserved keyword name space for vendor
  extensions. It is suggested that the format to be used is:

      VENDOR.keyword

  where VENDOR is the name of the vendor or organization in all
  uppercase letters. It is further suggested that the keyword following
  the <period> be named differently than any of the standard keywords so
  that it could be used for future standardization, if appropriate, by
  omitting the VENDOR prefix.

  The <length> field in the extended header record was included to make
  it simpler to step through the records, even if a record contains an
  unknown format (to a particular pax) with complex interactions of
  special characters. It also provides a minor integrity checkpoint
  within the records to aid a program attempting to recover files from a
  damaged archive.

  There are no extended header versions of the devmajor and devminor
  fields because the unspecified format ustar header field should be
  sufficient. If they are not, vendor-specific extended keywords (such
  as VENDOR.devmajor) should be used.

  Device and i-number labeling of files was not adopted from cpio; files
  are interchanged strictly on a symbolic name basis, as in ustar.

  Just as with the ustar format descriptions, the new format makes no
  special arrangements for multi-volume archives. Each of the pax
  archive types is assumed to be inside a single POSIX file and
  splitting that file over multiple volumes (diskettes, tape cartridges,
  and so on), processing their labels, and mounting each in the proper
  sequence are considered to be implementation details that cannot be
  described portably.

  The pax format is intended for interchange, not only for backup on a
  single (family of) systems. It is not as densely packed as might be
  possible for backup:

  -   It contains information as coded characters that could be coded in
      binary.

  -   It identifies extended records with name fields that could be
      omitted in favor of a fixed-field layout.

  -   It translates names into a portable character set and identifies
      locale-related information, both of which are probably unnecessary
      for backup.

  The requirements on restoring from an archive are slightly different
  from the historical wording, allowing for non-monolithic privilege to
  bring forward as much as possible. In particular, attributes such as
  "high performance file" might be broadly but not universally granted
  while set-user-ID or chown() might be much more restricted. There is
  no implication in POSIX.1-2017 that the security information be
  honored after it is restored to the file hierarchy, in spite of what
  might be improperly inferred by the silence on that topic. That is a
  topic for another standard.

  Links are recorded in the fashion described here because a link can be
  to any file type. It is desirable in general to be able to restore
  part of an archive selectively and restore all of those files
  completely. If the data is not associated with each link, it is not
  possible to do this. However, the data associated with a file can be
  large, and when selective restoration is not needed, this can be a
  significant burden. The archive is structured so that files that have
  no associated data can always be restored by the name of any link name
  of any link, and the user may choose whether data is recorded with
  each instance of a file that contains data. The format permits mixing
  of both types of links in a single archive; this can be done for
  special needs, and pax is expected to interpret such archives on input
  properly, despite the fact that there is no pax option that would
  force this mixed case on output. (When -o linkdata is used, the output
  must contain the duplicate data, but the implementation is free to
  include it or omit it when -o linkdata is not used.)

  The time values are included as extended header records for those
  implementations needing more than the eleven octal digits allowed by
  the ustar format. Portable file timestamps cannot be negative. If pax
  encounters a file with a negative timestamp in copy or write mode, it
  can reject the file, substitute a non-negative timestamp, or generate
  a non-portable timestamp with a leading '-'. Even though some
  implementations can support finer file-time granularities than
  seconds, the normative text requires support only for seconds since
  the Epoch because the ISO POSIX-1 standard states them that way. The
  ustar format includes only mtime; the new format adds atime and ctime
  for symmetry. The atime access time restored to the file system will
  be affected by the -p a and -p e options. The ctime creation time
  (actually inode modification time) is described with appropriate
  privileges so that it can be ignored when writing to the file system.
  POSIX does not provide a portable means to change file creation time.
  Nothing is intended to prevent a non-portable implementation of pax
  from restoring the value.

  The gid, size, and uid extended header records were included to allow
  expansion beyond the sizes specified in the regular tar header. New
  file system architectures are emerging that will exhaust the 12-digit
  size field. There are probably not many systems requiring more than 8
  digits for user and group IDs, but the extended header values were
  included for completeness, allowing overrides for all of the decimal
  values in the tar header.

  The standard developers intended to describe the effective results of
  pax with regard to file ownerships and permissions; implementations
  are not restricted in timing or sequencing the restoration of such,
  provided the results are as specified.

  Much of the text describing the extended headers refers to use in "
  write or copy modes". The copy mode references are due to the
  normative text: "The effect of the copy shall be as if the copied
  files were written to an archive file and then subsequently extracted
  ...". There is certainly no way to test whether pax is actually
  generating the extended headers in copy mode, but the effects must be
  as if it had.

  pax Archive Character Set Encoding/Decoding

  There is a need to exchange archives of files between systems of
  different native codesets. Filenames, group names, and user names must
  be preserved to the fullest extent possible when an archive is read on
  the receiving platform. Translation of the contents of files is not
  within the scope of the pax utility.

  There will also be the need to represent characters that are not
  available on the receiving platform. These unsupported characters
  cannot be automatically folded to the local set of characters due to
  the chance of collisions. This could result in overwriting previous
  extracted files from the archive or pre-existing files on the system.

  For these reasons, the codeset used to represent characters within the
  extended header records of the pax archive must be sufficiently rich
  to handle all commonly used character sets. The fields requiring
  translation include, at a minimum, filenames, user names, group names,
  and link pathnames. Implementations may wish to have localized
  extended keywords that use non-portable characters.

  The standard developers considered the following options:

  -   The archive creator specifies the well-defined name of the source
      codeset. The receiver must then recognize the codeset name and
      perform the appropriate translations to the destination codeset.

  -   The archive creator includes within the archive the character
      mapping table for the source codeset used to encode extended
      header records. The receiver must then read the character mapping
      table and perform the appropriate translations to the destination
      codeset.

  -   The archive creator translates the extended header records in the
      source codeset into a canonical form. The receiver must then
      perform the appropriate translations to the destination codeset.

  The approach that incorporates the name of the source codeset poses
  the problem of codeset name registration, and makes the archive
  useless to pax archive decoders that do not recognize that codeset.

  Because parts of an archive may be corrupted, the standard developers
  felt that including the character map of the source codeset was too
  fragile. The loss of this one key component could result in making the
  entire archive useless. (The difference between this and the global
  extended header decision was that the latter has a
  workaround-duplicating extended header records on unreliable media-but
  this would be too burdensome for large character set maps.)

  Both of the above approaches also put an undue burden on the pax
  archive receiver to handle the cross-product of all source and
  destination codesets.

  To simplify the translation from the source codeset to the canonical
  form and from the canonical form to the destination codeset, the
  standard developers decided that the internal representation should be
  a stateless encoding. A stateless encoding is one where each codepoint
  has the same meaning, without regard to the decoder being in a
  specific state. An example of a stateful encoding would be the
  Japanese Shift-JIS; an example of a stateless encoding would be the
  ISO/IEC 646:1991 standard (equivalent to 7-bit ASCII).

  For these reasons, the standard developers decided to adopt a
  canonical format for the representation of file information strings.
  The obvious, well-endorsed candidate is the ISO/IEC 10646-1:2000
  standard (based in part on Unicode), which can be used to represent
  the characters of virtually all standardized character sets. The
  standard developers initially agreed upon using UCS2 (16-bit Unicode)
  as the internal representation. This repertoire of characters provides
  a sufficiently rich set to represent all commonly-used codesets.

  However, the standard developers found that the 16-bit Unicode
  representation had some problems. It forced the issue of standardizing
  byte ordering. The 2-byte length of each character made the extended
  header records twice as long for the case of strings coded entirely
  from historical 7-bit ASCII. For these reasons, the standard
  developers chose the UTF-8 defined in the ISO/IEC 10646-1:2000
  standard. This multi-byte representation encodes UCS2 or UCS4
  characters reliably and deterministically, eliminating the need for a
  canonical byte ordering. In addition, NUL octets and other characters
  possibly confusing to POSIX file systems do not appear, except to
  represent themselves. It was realized that certain national codesets
  take up more space after the encoding, due to their placement within
  the UCS range; it was felt that the usefulness of the encoding of the
  names outweighs the disadvantage of size increase for file, user, and
  group names.

  The encoding of UTF-8 is as follows:

      UCS4 Hex Encoding  UTF-8 Binary Encoding


      00000000-0000007F  0xxxxxxx
      00000080-000007FF  110xxxxx 10xxxxxx
      00000800-0000FFFF  1110xxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx
      00010000-001FFFFF  11110xxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx
      00200000-03FFFFFF  111110xx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx
      04000000-7FFFFFFF  1111110x 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx 10xxxxxx

  where each 'x' represents a bit value from the character being
  translated.

  ustar Interchange Format

  The description of the ustar format reflects numerous enhancements
  over pre-1988 versions of the historical tar utility. The goal of
  these changes was not only to provide the functional enhancements
  desired, but also to retain compatibility between new and old
  versions. This compatibility has been retained. Archives written using
  the old archive format are compatible with the new format.

  Implementors should be aware that the previous file format did not
  include a mechanism to archive directory type files. For this reason,
  the convention of using a filename ending with <slash> was adopted to
  specify a directory on the archive.

  The total size of the name and prefix fields have been set to meet the
  minimum requirements for {PATH_MAX}. If a pathname will fit within the
  name field, it is recommended that the pathname be stored there
  without the use of the prefix field. Although the name field is known
  to be too small to contain {PATH_MAX} characters, the value was not
  changed in this version of the archive file format to retain
  backwards-compatibility, and instead the prefix was introduced. Also,
  because of the earlier version of the format, there is no way to
  remove the restriction on the linkname field being limited in size to
  just that of the name field.

  The size field is required to be meaningful in all implementation
  extensions, although it could be zero. This is required so that the
  data blocks can always be properly counted.

  It is suggested that if device special files need to be represented
  that cannot be represented in the standard format, that one of the
  extension types (A- Z) be used, and that the additional information
  for the special file be represented as data and be reflected in the
  size field.

  Attempting to restore a special file type, where it is converted to
  ordinary data and conflicts with an existing filename, need not be
  specially detected by the utility. If run as an ordinary user, pax
  should not be able to overwrite the entries in, for example, /dev in
  any case (whether the file is converted to another type or not). If
  run as a privileged user, it should be able to do so, and it would be
  considered a bug if it did not. The same is true of ordinary data
  files and similarly named special files; it is impossible to
  anticipate the needs of the user (who could really intend to overwrite
  the file), so the behavior should be predictable (and thus regular)
  and rely on the protection system as required.

  The value 7 in the typeflag field is intended to define how contiguous
  files can be stored in a ustar archive. POSIX.1-2017 does not require
  the contiguous file extension, but does define a standard way of
  archiving such files so that all conforming systems can interpret
  these file types in a meaningful and consistent manner. On a system
  that does not support extended file types, the pax utility should do
  the best it can with the file and go on to the next.

  The file protection modes are those conventionally used by the ls
  utility. This is extended beyond the usage in the ISO POSIX-2 standard
  to support the "shared text" or "sticky" bit. It is intended that the
  conformance document should not document anything beyond the existence
  of and support of such a mode. Further extensions are expected to
  these bits, particularly with overloading the set-user-ID and
  set-group-ID flags.

  cpio Interchange Format

  The reference to appropriate privileges in the cpio format refers to
  an error on standard output; the ustar format does not make comparable
  statements.

  The model for this format was the historical System V cpio -c data
  interchange format. This model documents the portable version of the
  cpio format and not the binary version. It has the flexibility to
  transfer data of any type described within POSIX.1-2017, yet is
  extensible to transfer data types specific to extensions beyond
  POSIX.1-2017 (for example, contiguous files). Because it describes
  existing practice, there is no question of maintaining
  upwards-compatibility.

  cpio Header

  There has been some concern that the size of the c_ino field of the
  header is too small to handle those systems that have very large inode
  numbers. However, the c_ino field in the header is used strictly as a
  hard-link resolution mechanism for archives. It is not necessarily the
  same value as the inode number of the file in the location from which
  that file is extracted.

  The name c_magic is based on historical usage.

  cpio Filename

  For most historical implementations of the cpio utility, {PATH_MAX}
  octets can be used to describe the pathname without the addition of
  any other header fields (the NUL character would be included in this
  count). {PATH_MAX} is the minimum value for pathname size, documented
  as 256 bytes. However, an implementation may use c_namesize to
  determine the exact length of the pathname. With the current
  description of the <cpio.h> header, this pathname size can be as large
  as a number that is described in six octal digits.

  Two values are documented under the c_mode field values to provide for
  extensibility for known file types:

  0110 000
      Reserved for contiguous files. The implementation may treat the
      rest of the information for this archive like a regular file. If
      this file type is undefined, the implementation may create the
      file as a regular file.

  This provides for extensibility of the cpio format while allowing for
  the ability to read old archives. Files of an unknown type may be read
  as "regular files" on some implementations. On a system that does not
  support extended file types, the pax utility should do the best it can
  with the file and go on to the next.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS

  None.

SEE ALSO

  Shell Command Language, cp, ed, getopts, ls, printf

  XBD File Mode Bits, File Format Notation, Environment Variables,
  Utility Syntax Guidelines, <cpio.h>, <tar.h>

  XSH chown, creat, fstatat, mkdir, mkfifo, utime, write

CHANGE HISTORY

  First released in Issue 4.

Issue 5

  A note is added to the APPLICATION USAGE indicating that the cpio and
  tar formats can only support files up to 8 gigabytes in size.

Issue 6

  The pax utility is aligned with the IEEE P1003.2b draft standard:

  -   Support has been added for symbolic links in the options and
      interchange formats.

  -   A new format has been devised, based on extensions to ustar.

  -   References to the "extended" tar and cpio formats derived from the
      POSIX.1-1990 standard have been changed to remove the "extended"
      adjective because this could cause confusion with the extended tar
      header added in this version. (All references to tar are actually
      to ustar.)

  The TZ entry is added to the ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES section.

  IEEE PASC Interpretation 1003.2 #168 is applied, clarifying that
  mkdir() and mkfifo() calls can ignore an [EEXIST] error when
  extracting an archive.

  IEEE PASC Interpretation 1003.2 #180 is applied, clarifying how
  extracted files are created when in read mode.

  IEEE PASC Interpretation 1003.2 #181 is applied, clarifying the
  description of the -t option.

  IEEE PASC Interpretation 1003.2 #195 is applied.

  IEEE PASC Interpretation 1003.2 #206 is applied, clarifying the
  handling of links for the -H, -L, and -l options.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 1-2002, item XCU/TC1/D6/35 is applied, adding
  the process ID of the pax process into certain fields. This change
  provides a method for the implementation to ensure that different
  instances of pax extracting a file named /a/b/foo will not collide
  when processing the extended header information associated with foo.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 1-2002, item XCU/TC1/D6/36 is applied,
  changing -x B to -x pax in the OPTIONS section.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/20 is applied,
  updating the SYNOPSIS to be consistent with the normative text.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/21 is applied,
  updating the DESCRIPTION to describe the behavior when files to be
  linked are symbolic links and the system is not capable of making hard
  links to symbolic links.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/22 is applied,
  updating the OPTIONS section to describe the behavior for how multiple
  -o delete=pattern options are to be handled.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/23 is applied,
  updating the write option within the OPTIONS section.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/24 is applied, adding
  a paragraph into the OPTIONS section that states that specifying more
  than one of the mutually-exclusive options (-H and -L) is not
  considered an error and that the last option specified will determine
  the behavior of the utility.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/25 is applied,
  removing the ctime paragraph within the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION. There is
  a contradiction in the definition of the ctime keyword for the pax
  extended header, in that the st_ctime member of the stat structure
  does not refer to a file creation time. No field in the standard stat
  structure from <sys/stat.h> includes a file creation time.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/26 is applied, making
  it clear that typeflag 1 ( ustar Interchange Format) applies not only
  to files that are hard-linked, but also to files that are aliased via
  symbolic links.

  IEEE Std 1003.1-2001/Cor 2-2004, item XCU/TC2/D6/27 is applied,
  clarifying the cpio c_nlink field.

Issue 7

  Austin Group Interpretations 1003.1-2001 #011, #036, #086, and #109
  are applied.

  Austin Group Interpretation 1003.1-2001 #126 is applied, changing the
  description of the LC_MESSAGES environment variable.

  SD5-XCU-ERN-2 is applied, making -c and -n mutually-exclusive in the
  SYNOPSIS.

  SD5-XCU-ERN-3 is applied, revising the default behavior of -H and -L.

  SD5-XCU-ERN-5, SD5-XCU-ERN-6, SD5-XCU-ERN-7, SD5-XCU-ERN-60 are
  applied.

  SD5-XCU-ERN-97 is applied, updating the SYNOPSIS.

  The pax utility is no longer allowed to create separate identical
  symbolic links when extracting linked symbolic links from an archive.

  POSIX.1-2008, Technical Corrigendum 1, XCU/TC1-2008/0128 [260],
  XCU/TC1-2008/0129 [261], XCU/TC1-2008/0130 [261], XCU/TC1-2008/0131
  [313], and XCU/TC1-2008/0132 [233] are applied.

  POSIX.1-2008, Technical Corrigendum 2, XCU/TC2-2008/0152 [886],
  XCU/TC2-2008/0153 [814], XCU/TC2-2008/0154 [886], and
  XCU/TC2-2008/0155 [707] are applied.

End of informative text.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


UNIX ® is a registered Trademark of The Open Group.
POSIX ™ is a Trademark of The IEEE.
Copyright © 2001-2018 IEEE and The Open Group, All Rights Reserved
